Last week, Anthropic released this
marketing video in which they're like,
"Hey, we built a C compiler from
scratch." You know, like we just walked
away and two weeks later was like poof,
C compiler and everything worked. I
could build Linux. It was easy peasy.
Engineering's over. Now, of course, this
led a bunch of people to kind of
actually say, well, hey, it wasn't
really from scratch. He used a bunch of
test suites and everything. But
Cloudflare, when they saw that, they
said, well, wait, wait, wait a second.
Hold my beer. I got an idea. And they
decided they're going to rebuild Nex.js,
JS, which is if you don't know anything
about Nex.js, just imagine a framework
and you put a framework in a framework.
That's effectively what Nex.js is. They
call it a meta framework. Okay, very
metaphysical. Okay, I actually I don't
even get that joke. And they make
outrageous claims about it. 57% smaller
client bundles, 4x faster builds. All
right, so we're going to obviously have
to go over this. We're going to talk
about these claims. We're going to
actually kind of understand the whole
purpose to everything. And even more so,
we should probably talk about the
implications of this. But first, I don't
know if you know this, March 27th, I'm
going to be in San Francisco. I'm going
to be doing an event for Century. If you
want to come sign up, the link will be
in the description. It's going to be a
lot of fun. A lot of founders and
engineers are all going to be hanging
out at the Chase Center. Sports ball. Am
I right, boys?
Yeah. You know me and that sports ball.
Hey, but if we're talking pickle ball,
dog, I'll see you on the court. Anyways,
link will be in the description. Come
hang out. It's going to be awesome. So,
first to kind of understand what's
happening, if you don't know anything
about Nex.js, it's chronically been
known on the internet as a very
difficult thing to host if you're not on
Versel. Open next right here, which was
created, of course, by Dax. Look at Dax.
Look at all that money on him. Classic
DAX right there. It was created with the
sole purpose of making hosting Nex.js
not on Versel easier. And there's a lot
of reasons why this is difficult. No
need to go into them. Just know that
there's some hurdles one has to jump
over to make this easy. Now, what makes
this really interesting is if you
remember with Anthropic,
they used the 37 years of engineering
test to be able to produce a C compiler
that they probably already had memorized
in the weights. But this one is is
different because Cloudflare used the
1700 viest tests and 380 playright
endtoend test to effectively recreate
Nex.js, JS, but instead of having kind
of the proprietary or the turbo pack or
whatever you would call that kind of
build style, instead it was something
that'd be a lot more friendly to say
Netlfly or Cloudflare. And in one week,
they were able to actually like get it
to work. Now, this part actually right
here terrified me. We've been working
with the National Design Studio, a team
aiming at modernizing every government
interface on their beta sites, cio.gov.
They're already running Vinex in
production. Okay. Hey brothers. I mean,
hey, Cloudflare, I love you, but
[laughter]
let's not use experimental frameworks on
the government. Oh my gosh, what are we
doing, dude? It's a fun time. Hey, we
all get to laugh during the SL
apocalypse. Okay. Uh, actually, I have
to interrupt myself uh, quickly. A
couple hours later, I was doing some
more reading on this and I realized that
I kind of misrepresented stuff right
here. 94% of the NextJS 16 API surface
sounds very intense, but if you go and
look at how much of the actual Next.js
JS test coverage this Cloudflare port
actually has it's 13% dev 20% end to end
and 10% production. There are 13,78
test cases and there's only 17380
end to end ones. So very interesting.
One week of having an agent go hog wild.
I mean it's impressive it's made it this
far and people are actually using it.
Still a little worried about that
government thing though. Okay. I just
just throw that out there. Okay, so
let's talk about the claims. 4x faster
builds and 57% smaller. So, we'll get to
the second one in just a moment. The
first one, I can understand why this
happens. First off, they have just
different build systems, so maybe roll
down just truly is that much more
performant than say Turbo Pack. I'm not
saying which one's actually better here,
but let's just pretend like that is a
real thing. But there's a lot of things
that it doesn't do. So, this is a very
important part. this V next or whatever
they're calling it uh this this new
Nex.js Cloudflare edition. It doesn't do
quite everything that Next.js does right
here. Vex does not support static
pre-rendering at buildtime. In Nex.js,
pages without dynamic data get rendered
during next build and served as static
HTML. If you have dynamic routes, you
use generate static params to enumerate
which pages to build ahead of time. Vext
doesn't do that yet. It's obviously
doing less work, but that's not quite
the whole story. This I actually find
this part to be super interesting.
Introducing trafficaw aare
pre-rendering. Next.js pre-renders every
page listed and generates static params
during the build. A site with 10,000
product pages means 10,000 renders at
build time even though 99% of those
pages may never receive a request. Build
scales linearly with page count. This is
why Nex.js sites end up taking 30 minute
builds. Okay, I ever been there. I
didn't know about this. I have been in
places where there are 45minut
Typescript builds. I do get this. So, we
take traffic aare pre-rendering TPR. By
the way, front-end people love
abbreviations. We already I mean, they
just got done saying ISR just just a
little bit ago. Okay, they're all about
these things. So, we built traffic aware
pre-rendering. It's experimental today
and we plan to make it the default once
we have a more real world testing. The
idea is simple. Cloudflare already is a
reverse proxy for your site. They
already know everything that's being
visited. So, why not use that
information and just build the things
you need? And as you can see right here,
12,000 unique paths, 184 pages cover 90%
of the traffic. Actually, pretty cool.
Pretty based, I'd say. All right, so the
next two parts I'm actually very excited
to talk about. So, the first one being
the 57% smaller. Okay, I I'm just going
to throw this out there. I don't believe
you. And hold on, just let me just let
me just let me just back that up for a
second. Okay, I've been around the block
for a while and I've seen a lot of
performance claims and I have been a
part of grand rewrites and I've seen
things be super fantastic and then
become well equal if not worse than the
other one. So, there's only a couple
possibilities that we're seeing. First,
we are seeing the early days of V Next,
meaning that not all the features are
there, not all the things that made uh
Next.js big are there. So, as time goes
on, size will go up and then they'll
become much closer, like within 5% of
each other. I think this is probably the
most likely answer is that Vinex is just
not doing things and that saves them a
lot because the only other answer is
that Next.js has so thoroughly screwed
up. They're sending effectively 2x more
than they need to. And honestly, I
refuse to believe that. Like, just a no
way. I did corner a uh Cloudflare
engineer and I did ask them uh many a
times and at the end of the conversation
he's like it's real and I was like I
don't believe you. That was my only
answer. I just no you can't just do you
can't just have 50% smaller and
everything else the same. I just not
believe in it but in the small chance
that it's actually true. That's
incredible. What did MaxJS do to screw
this up? But the performance does seem
to be like something's going on because
if you look right here, this slop fork
is faster and smaller. You can see right
here, people's P99 times are actually
dropping. Okay, so there's a there
there. I have no idea the validity of
the data or anything. But if this is to
be believed by this Cloudflare employee,
which again, I mean, that's trusting,
you know, the old fox with the hens as
they say. But if this is to be uh true,
then then oh my gosh, that's actually a
dramatic improvement. But the most
important topic is what are the
implications from this? Because the C
compiler was just like, oh, we all kind
of laughed at anthropic because of how
much they just misrepresented it.
Whereas the Cloudflare one, they're
like, no dog, we're running this in
production. Yeah, people are just using
it. Okay, so this one's a bit more real.
And they did the exact same strategy.
The tests were open. They took
everything. They are effectively able to
brain drain it like Silicon Valley. And
boom, they have their own version. It
makes me start thinking that maybe
something like SQLite is what we're
going to start seeing. So SQLite, for
those that don't know, part of their
quality assurance is this test harness
number three. Now test harness number
three or TH3 uh is the test suite is a
private set of test cases used by the
SQL light to 100% MC/DC in an asd
delivered configuration. The TH3 sources
are served on the same server as the
other SQLite repositories but differ
from the others in being proprietary.
The TH3 code is only accessible to
SQLite developers. So think about that.
SQLite keeps a large part of their test
private. Now, for a long time, did this
make a lot of sense? Honestly, I don't
really understand why they did that.
That's not the only thing they keep
private. They also have some other
things that they keep private, such as
this lib fuzzer. It's to kept private,
so we do not want hackers gaining access
to that technology. Sounds like I don't
know what's going on there, but that
sounds like Batman level going on.
And the name of it looks just like a
typo. Like, I mean, that looks
fantastic. I want whatever's going on in
there. But any this actually has kind of
an interesting impact, right? Do you
think we're going to see the day where
say companybacked open source no longer
like makes public any sort of testing
because one can imagine that if you have
a sufficiently large project, you can't
just simply just say, "Hey AI, go make a
copy." It'd be very very difficult. Will
we just start seeing kind of a large
change in open source? Because what's
the purpose of producing all this stuff
if somebody else can just say, "Hey,
that's mine now." or even more
importantly, your competitor can just
say, "Oh, hey, that's mine now."
Interesting. At least interesting to see
what's going to happen over the course
of the next couple years. I think we may
end up seeing perhaps the end of making
money off of open source by having a
company also do something special with
the open source because people so easily
can now copy that. It's a very
interesting future because this fork
that they have created, I wonder how
maintainable is it? Is it are they
permanently just required to live in
this slop universe until someone can
finally wrangle their head around it?
Because the attempt to rewrite Nex.js to
be able to work on other platforms has
been tried multiple times and has been a
failure quite a few times. Cloudflare
even mentions that they have attempted
multiple times. And so what do you do
with this just steaming hot pile of code
that you've now been delivered? I don't
know. There's a lot of just like weird
world implications in this. We are
seeing truly for the first time a major
technology that's going to be used by a
lot of people in which I don't think any
individual can reason about what it's
actually doing currently. The name
well
I don't even have a joke. I don't I I
don't even have a joke to make. Okay.
The name's the premigen. That's it.
That's all I got for you. A gen. Hey, is
that HTTP? Get that out of here. That's
not how we order coffee. We order coffee
via SSH terminal.shop. Yeah, you want a
real experience. You want real coffee.
You want awesome subscriptions so you
never have to remember again? Oh, you
want exclusive blends with exclusive
coffee and exclusive [music] content?
Then check out Cron. You don't know what
SSH is?
>> Well, maybe the coffee is not for you.
[singing]
>> [music]
>> in hand.
Living the dream.